+++
date = "2016-05-19T18:49:30+02:00"
title = "Escape from Stalingrad"

+++

### Chapter I - Diary of a famished man

The roof of the floor was partially missing together with the right side of the
building, courtesy of the Luftwaffe.We were moving slowly through the rubble on
the first floor when the door burst in a million pieces hitting everyone with
splinters. Two of us where now lying in the rubble covered with dust. The Nazis
rigged a stick grenade and tied it to a chair, hiding the cable in the ruble.
Sasha's legs were blown to piece along with half of his torso, he was lying
there motionless. We got up, dusted off and continued through the building, no
time to morn Sasha. No time...  

It wasn't the first time the Wehrmacht 6th army booby trapped buildings. We
were fighting them for every inch, every room, every street. We met them on
roof tops where our snipers would blow their brains or in the sewers where our
comrades from the 13th guard would meet them in a blood bath.  

Supplies were scarce. We all had blisters but Alexei's boots were full of
blood. How that fool could still walk was a mystery to us all. We hadn't eaten
in days and the only water we could drink was from puddles outside. Some of got
sick and started throwing up, ending up incapacitated. Most of the water was
either dirty or with blood. The smell of gunpowder together with rotting flesh
was everywhere. God has forsaken this place...  

Rattenkrieg (the battle of rats)- that's how the Germans named this battle.
Continuously seeking to push back the Nazis had reduced much of the city to
rubble. Most of the streets weren't accessible by vehicles and Nazi-free good
places for our snipers where very rare.   Our orders were to meet the Nazis in
close quarter combat so that they couldn't order air raids over the buildings.
It was a suicidal tactic but it was working so far. Our outpost was in a
basement of one of the buildings near the Volga river. In the beginning we were
12, the close quarters combat and the constant shelling reduced the squad to 4.
The last one to die was Sasha Nikolaevich, 20 year old private of 62nd army,
conscripted 3 months ago. The first one was Arseny the first night after the
Heer set foot in the city. He was doing reconnaissance on one of the
intersections when a sniper shot him in the stomach. Two of us rushed and got
him off the streets but he died one hour later in agony.  

Tomorrow we rush on the eastern part of the city to take over a street of
strategical importance. We will make our way through the houses and try to
settle a reconnaissance point near one of the last accessible intersections.  

### Chapter II - The point of no return
