+++
date = "2016-03-19T18:49:30+02:00"
title = "Experius and Universe X"

+++
### Chapter I - Aphelion - the prequel
The battered space capsule was traveling trough the vast darkness of space
close to dazzling speeds. Affected by strong solar wind and gamma radiation it
clinched to its trajectory and didn’t stray.It was 6 billion years after the
Universe, our Universe, had reached what we called the Big Bang. All matter
condensed in the the form of a tiny grain of sand reached a point where it
could only give birth in a single short burst of more matter. An expanding
single organism formed of stars and star nurseries called nebulae. The primary
ingredient for this “primordial soup” was hydrogen of course, an omnipresent
element. Its role, among others, was that in conjunction with Oxygen it would
harbor life. Time did not exist, space did not exist. Life existed. It was
always here and it will always be here, for  the universe is  nothing but a
machine, a single organism with a life cycle. Every 23 billion years, when the
cycle is complete, matter collapse onto itself again, causing the universe to
contract into a grain of matter causing time to cease again, crushing gigantic
stars, black holes, and rearranging dark matter trough a perfect algorithm
around it so that the next life cycle would have an easy way into nothingness.
A grain of sand  frozen for eons before the second life cycle began. The
aforementioned capsule was close to its destination. It was set to crash on a
murky planet that a few billion years ago received brutal punishment from
asteroids and comments alike. Seen from land, as it reached the upper
atmosphere and starting to catch fire, you could have mistaken it for the same
comets that hit the planet. But this capsule was traveling with a special
package, on the floral markings that were stretching from its sharp nose to the
end, you could distinguish the Yedi language of planet Athur, as it entered the
lower atmosphere, the blades on the end of the capsule started to spin so it
could, take some of its momentum away. As it reached the hard surface it hit
the mud with a stifled sound. It was here, after billion of years of travel,
after gamma ray radiation, micro particles beating the light weight alloy that
it would deploy. The end of the capsule blossomed like a tulip in mid May,
releasing billions of spores blown away by wind in an instance. Spreading the
seeds of life, that reached the bottom of deep oceans, where they gave birth to
microorganisms that will eventually mutate and evolve in much complex
organisms, all adding and storing information to what will eventually become
the human genome.  

The Yedi knew that their space and time will collapse onto itself, they had
more information from their ancestors that created them,you see life was ported
from one life cycle of the universe to another trough worm holes, the
Merdovignians inherited the technology from their ancestors that were the
masters of the universes, The architects. They created universes trying to find
the perfect life form that would coexist peacefully with the nature and
itself.These early engineers of universes and time created billions and
billions of universes, each of them acting like giant folding machines. After
one cycle has passed, each universe, would reset itself until results were
perfect. A daring plan, for we know that perfection does not exist and can not
be achieved. Even having the ability to modify, create and stop time and matter
did not prove to be useful in finding the absolute perfect life form.  

Universe X - when the space capsule hit earth was approaching life cycle
omikron. Every 23 billion years the waves of the birth of the universe that
were traveling trough the unknown facilitated by dark matter would reach a
point where dark matter could not stretch, causing the waves to ricochet back
to the source, blasting everything in their path, causing the
space-time-continuum to unfold and eventually to rupture the fabric of time.
This phenomenon was called by the Yedi, the Great End of All. That’s when a
universe reset itself. Before this, the architects achieved Perpetuum beings,
outstanding technological beings or just plain simple Dirt-walkers (early
ancestors of the humans). Mixed results for an experiment on a universal scale.
The Merdovignians were allowed by the architects to let life propagate trough
space and time and evade the cycles, thus the Yedi were born and the Yedi, with
all their wit and outstanding knowledge of time and the universe were able to
calculate at the precise time when the spore capsule should be launched trough
their collider so it can reach, what we would later refer to as the pale blue
dot, at the precise time. Spawning in time and space shortly after the birth of
the universe, the wormhole would then project the capsule so that it could
travel at the speed of the expanding universe, slowly slowing down as stars
began to form, galaxies began to unravel and encompass more and more planets
and other stars.  

### Chapter II - Embedded Roots  

Every aphelion of Tehera, a planet near Athur, caused wormhole sync events. The
Yedi could calculate where they can send voyagers trough the wormholes near
Tehera, and given the speed of the voyagers they could estimate the
destination, not in space, but in time. This made it possible for them to study
all of the time until omikron. Knowing what will follow, the higher hierarchy
of their leaders, decided that propagation was needed as their time was nearing
its end.  

During perihelion life was blooming on Athur. Artha, the mother start of the
planet Tehera was sending waves of heat towards Athur, but during Aphelion
everything was frozen stiff. The Yedi could cope with fast changing climate,
they were the creations of the Merdovignians and a top notch breed of space
engineers with high level of computations. They didn't need any machines to
compute large numbers, they didn't have a structured society, they were simple.
Each child was bred  out of necessity and no more. They only looked at life as
time to explore. With only one settlement near the equator, where it was hotter
than the rest of the planet, they dug down to the core of the planet and were
harvesting energy from heat. Their advanced mathematical concepts of heat
transfer and cold fusion of matter, could turn anything to energy. The voyagers
that were sent trough the vastness of the Universe were powered by their own
multicore fusion reactors.  

As the Yedi people dug even further down to the core of the planet, they
eventually set up a habitat 150 km below the earth's crust.  
